# Course Summary

Robota Psyche has definitely been one of the most insightful classes I've taken. Initially, my expectations for the class were more technical-geared, but as the course progressed, I was thoroughly immersed in the more theoretical aspects as well.

In the first weeks, we focused mainly on the technical aspects by exploring and broadening our knowledge on Processing. I found it especially interesting as I had taken Introduction to Interactive Media, which is also Processing-heavy in terms of content, but this was different. We weren't just learning the basics in isolation, we were combining all that we had learned and using that to simulate real-world situations. When the concept of ecosystems was first brought up, I was initially taken aback. How could something as biologically-connotated as an ecosystem have anything to do with the cold mechanical world of programming? The concept of programming these behaviours seemed so wild to me and I was fascinated by all we had learned and all we had made. We dealt with so many PVectors that at this point, I'm 95% certain that we're all Pvectors haha. But in all seriousness, seeing the way we would take a concept like gravity or schooling in fish or swarming, these lifelike behaviours, and attach them to circles or triangles and they would begin to behave like actual biological organisms was really amazing. It was in this course, that I had first encountered the term "emergent behaviour" and that really stuck with me as the idea of something existing that was not intentionally programmed, was such a new concept to me.

The discussions were definitely my favourite part though. With the discussions based on the readings, I found it so so cool how we woiuld all be looking at the same readings, but would pick up different things and ask so many questions that I wouldn't even have considered in isolation. Furthermore, in the individual presentations, the amount of creativity and research put into each presentation was very admirable. From discussions on trust to religion to socioeconomic status, every new presentation brought forward new perspectives and even more unanswered questions. I was initially a bit frustrated with the unanswered questions because it seemed like we were going around in circles in each class and reaching the same conclusions. However, I was able to come to terms with this and realize that all we were discussing wasn't in vain and that having these conversations were important. Even though we might not have answers to the questions we come up with, taking just one step in the right direction is equally as important. The readings and videos were also very eye-opening. Each week brought forth a new topic and the arguments put forward were very compelling.

Generally, I really did learn a lot from this class and I was able to grapple with concepts and questions that had been put off for a long time, or difficult questions about the future which is nearer than it might seem. I was able to recognize that we as a human society need to start opening up these discussions because they're becoming more and more relevant. I'm really excited for what the future holds, and I have hope that once we embrace these difficult questions, we will be taking steps in the right direction, which to me is always a good thing.
